Simplification and consolidation of SD-JWT terminology and format (#293)
oauth-wg/oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt: draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt.md

While JWTs with claims describing natural persons are a common use case, the
mechanisms defined in this document can be used for other use cases as well.

In an SD-JWT, claims can be hidden, but cryptographically
protected against undetected modification. "Claims" here refers to both
object properties (key-value pairs) as well as array elements. When issuing the SD-JWT to
the Holder, the Issuer includes the cleartext counterparts of all hidden
claims, the so-called Disclosures, outside the signed part of the SD-JWT.

The Holder decides which claims to disclose to a particular Verifier and includes the respective
Disclosures in the SD-JWT to that Verifier. The Verifier
has to verify that all disclosed claim values were part of the original,

> Issuer-signed SD-JWT. The Verifier will not, however, learn any claim

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Issuer-signed JWT. The Verifier will not, however, learn any claim
```

> has to verify that all disclosed claim values were part of the original,
> Issuer-signed SD-JWT. The Verifier will not, however, learn any claim

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has to verify that all disclosed claim values were part of the original
Issuer-signed JWT. The Verifier will not, however, learn any claim
```

> In an Issuer-signed SD-JWT, claims can be hidden, but cryptographically

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In an SD-JWT, claims can be hidden, but cryptographically
```
In preparation for potentially calling the first part Issuer-Signed JWT or something similar.

protected against undetected modification. "Claims" here refers to both
object properties (key-value pairs) as well as array elements. When issuing the SD-JWT to

> the Holder, the Issuer includes the cleartext counterparts of all hidden
> claims, the so-called Disclosures, outside the signed JWT itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Holder, the Issuer includes the cleartext counterparts of all hidden
claims, the so-called Disclosures, outside the signed part of the SD-JWT.
```

## Feature Summary

* This specification defines
 - a format for the payload of an Issuer-signed JWT containing selectively disclosable claims that include object properties (key-value pairs), array elements, and nested data structures built from these,

>  - a format for data associated with the JWT that enables selectively disclosing those claims

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - a format for data associated with the JWT that enables selectively disclosing those claims,
```

>  - facilities for binding the JWT to a key and associated data to prove possession thereof, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - facilities for binding the Issuer-signed JWT to a key and associated data to prove possession thereof, and
```
what does `facilities` mean in this context?

Author: "facilities" is meant to mean like "ways of doing" or "mechanisms for"

Reviewer: ok, cool.

:  Process of a Holder disclosing to a Verifier a subset of claims contained in a claim set issued by an Issuer.

Selectively Disclosable JWT (SD-JWT):

> :  A composite structure consisting of an Issuer-signed JWT (JWS, [@!RFC7515]) and Disclosures,
>   which supports selective disclosure as defined in this document and can contain both regular claims and digests of selectively-disclosable claims.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:  A composite structure, consisting of an Issuer-signed JWT (JWS, [@!RFC7515]) and Disclosures,
  that supports selective disclosure as defined in this document and can contain both regular claims and digests of selectively-disclosable claims.
```

# Concepts

This section describes SD-JWTs with their respective Disclosures and Key Binding at a
conceptual level, abstracting from the data formats described in (#data_formats).

## SD-JWT and Disclosures

> An SD-JWT, at its core, is a digitally signed JSON document containing digests over the selectively disclosable claims with the Disclosures outside the document. Disclosures can be omitted without breaking the signature but not modified. Selectively disclosable claims can be individual object properties (key-value pairs) or array elements.

Reviewer: I do not understand `can be omitted ... but not modified... 
```suggestion
An SD-JWT, at its core, is a digitally signed JSON document containing digests over the selectively disclosable claims with the Disclosures outside the document. Disclosures can be omitted without breaking the signature, and modifying them can be detected. Selectively disclosable claims can be individual object properties (key-value pairs) or array elements.
```

data provided by the Verifier such as a nonce to ensure the freshness of the signature, and audience to indicate the
intended audience for the document.

The Key Binding JWT can be included as part of the SD-JWT and sent to the Verifier as described in (#sd-jwt-structure).

Note that there may be other ways to send a Key Binding JWT to the Verifier or for the Holder to prove possession of the key material included in an SD-JWT. In these cases, inclusion of the Key Binding JWT in the SD-JWT is not required.

## Verification

At a high level, the Verifier

 * receives the SD-JWT from the Holder and verifies its signature using the Issuer's public key,
 * verifies the Key Binding JWT, if Key Binding is required by the Verifier's policy, using the public key included in the SD-JWT,
 * calculates the digests over the Holder-Selected Disclosures and verifies that each digest is contained in the SD-JWT.

The detailed algorithm is described in (#verifier_verification).

# Data Formats {#data_formats}

> This section defines data formats for SD-JWTs including the Issuer-signed JWT content, Disclosures, and Key Binding JWTs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section defines data formats for SD-JWT including the Issuer-signed JWT content, Disclosures, and Key Binding JWT.
```
Guess no reason to be plural?

> ## SD-JWT Payload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Issuer-signed JWT Payload
```
Wouldn't this be more accurate..?

Author: I think they are basically synonymous. And prefer SD-JWT Payload here.

are allowed. For example, the following strings are all valid and encode the
same claim value "Möbius":

>  * A different way to encode the umlaut (two dots `¨` placed over the letter):\

Reviewer: it shows as `two dots &#168; placed over the letter` is there any way to change that..? (this is not the change introduced in this PR)

Reviewer: thanks!

> `WyJfMjZiYzRMVC1hYzZxMktJNmNCVzVlcyIsICJmYW1pbHlfbmFtZSIsICJNX`\

Reviewer: were there too many characters for one line..?

Reviewer: got it - thanks!

## Hashing Disclosures {#hashing_disclosures}

> For embedding the Disclosures in the SD-JWT, the Disclosures are hashed using the hash algorithm specified in the `_sd_alg` claim described in (#hash_function_claim). The resulting digest is then included in the SD-JWT payload instead of the original claim value, as described next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For embedding the Disclosures in the SD-JWT, the Disclosures are hashed using the hash algorithm specified in the `_sd_alg` claim described in (#hash_function_claim). The resulting digest is then included in the payload of the Issuer-signed JWT instead of the original claim value, as described next.
```

Author: I believe "SD-JWT payload" is accurate (enough) and okay here.

{{examples/simple/disclosures.md}}

The payload is then signed by the Issuer to create a JWT like the following:

<{{examples/simple/sd_jwt_jws_part.txt}}

## Decoy Digests {#decoy_digests}

> An Issuer MAY add additional digests to the SD-JWT payload that are not associated with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Issuer MAY add additional digests to the Issuer-signed JWT payload that are not associated with
```

Author: IMHO "SD-JWT payload" is okay here. "Issuer-signed JWT" is okay too but I'd like to not use that too much and so only when the distinction is needed.

Reviewer: ok..

> ## SD-JWT Issuance {#issued_sd-jwt}

Reviewer 2: I propose to call this section something like simply "SD-JWT" or "SD-JWT Structure" and the to describe in one section both issuance and presentation. I would hope that the following structure works:

- An SD-JWT is structured like this: `<Issuer-signed JWT>~<Disclosure 1>~<Disclosure 2>~...~<Disclosure M>~<optional Key Binding JWT>`
- In issuance, no KB JWT, but all disclosures
- Here is an example for issuance:
- In presentation, maybe KB JWT, but only selected disclosures.
- Here is an example for presentation:

WDYT?

Author: > WDYT?

That was kinda what I was envisioning going into the editing but I got a little hesitant on making the bigger change of combing sections.  But I think what you're proposing is probably better so I'll take a pass at it.

Author: Tried to do that in 7ec2dba3b84418d55ecb12aabd18de6d7cdf6394

based on the set of trust requirements such as trust frameworks it belongs to.

Other ways of proving Key Binding MAY be used when supported by the Verifier,
e.g., when the presented SD-JWT without a Key Binding JWT is itself embedded in a
signed JWT. See (#enveloping) for details.

## SD-JWT Structure {#sd-jwt-structure}

An SD-JWT is composed of the following:

* the Issuer-signed JWT

> * each respective Disclosure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Disclosures
```

* optionally a Key Binding JWT

The serialized format for the SD-JWT is the concatenation of each part delineated with a single tilde ('~') character as follows:

```
<JWT>~<Disclosure 1>~<Disclosure 2>~...~<Disclosure N>~<optional KB-JWT>
```

> The order of the tilde separated values MUST be the Issuer-signed JWT, followed by any Disclosures, and lastly the optional Key Binding JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The values MUST be separated by the tilde in this order:
1. The Issuer-signed JWT
2. The Disclosures
3. The optional Key Binding JWT

```

Author: I prefer the text to the bullets/numbers here. Basically the same bullets are already above.

Reviewer: ok

In the case that there is no Key Binding JWT, the last element MUST be an empty string and the last separating tilde character MUST NOT be omitted.

> The Disclosures are linked to the SD-JWT payload through the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Disclosures are linked to the Issuer-signed JWT payload through the
```

Author: I believe "SD-JWT payload" is accurate (enough) and okay here.

Reviewer: ok..

> Otherwise, the processed SD-JWT payload can be passed to the application to be used for the intended purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, the processed Issuer-signed JWT payload can be passed to the application to be used for the intended purpose.
```

Author: I believe "SD-JWT payload" is accurate (enough) and okay here.

Reviewer: ok..

# Enveloping an SD-JWT Presentation {#enveloping}

> In some applications or transport protocols, it is desirable to put an SD-JWT into an outer JWT container. For example, an implementation may envelope all credentials and presentations, independent of their format, in a JWT to enable application-layer encryption during transport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some applications or transport protocols, it is desirable to put an SD-JWT into an outer JWT container. For example, an implementation may envelope multiple credentials and presentations, independent of their format, in a JWT to enable application-layer encryption during transport.
```
